---
layout: post
title: ! 'Blog Salon: You Weren''t Meant to Have a Boss?'
categories:
- blog salon
tags: []
status: draft
type: post
published: false
---
Blog Salon is a meeting of friends in Portland, OR. Instead of a book club, this is a blog club. One selected post is emailed out in the morning for that afternoon's discussion over champagne and oysters. These are a few of our thoughts.

[al3x] Specific to Paul Graham who came from Yahoo. Yahoo had an emphasis on one Yahoo programming models [?]Not everybody's job is their entire life.[dave] Programmers write the code and then never revist is not true. Programmers are always refactoring. It made me question his credibility. [dawn] it's more true of large companies. [kmikey] Liked: Small is better. Better to do somehting right away that's small than join big company and wait to move up so you can effect real change. [carmen] not just true of programmers, of any job role. [dave] it doesn't matter what size the company, you can be small and still ahve a dictator. [tyesha] the bosses get screwed bc their decisouns are informed by hearsay bc they don't do the work anymore. it's liek a popsicle that's had the juice sucked out of it. They're no flavor anymore. [jos] clarifying the point of the article : smaller groups make individuals happier. [elena] we naturally like to hang out in smaller group. [dave] happier because they get to do more things [tyesha] managers represent you, the individuals are never fully represented [jos] psychologically speaking, having cool coworkers is the best indication of whether you're happy [elena] doesn't matter if everyone but the leadership is bad bc you bond over the dysfunctional elements [gaba] in small groups you have more influence over your destination and that drives happiness [dawn] i left intel bc id never worked for a company with less than 40k people. I worked for a startup but I left to go back to intel. Our group is independent bc we gel with the open source company instead. We're the rogue group. We don't run windows on our laptop. [kmikey] It's satisfying to be the rogue. [jos] the best idea is to create the big brother and then spin off each individual group. [rabble] That's what Nokia does. Each phone is it's own team with it's own designer and they fight. but that's when they started falling apart when they competed against each other. [al3x] as a startup founder, i should be predisposed to like this article. the author is writing this to get more startups to start companies so he can fund it. the thing he doesn't mention is that you do have a boss: your investors, your custormers, your employees. The employees are frustrated bc they have to answer to their obss. I'm frustrated bc I have to keep my employees happy so they don't go work for someone else. ycomb is the super organizeation. none are independent. they all exist to get an exit. their founders are on tiny shoestrings of money and can barely pay rent. i am a paul graham hater. matche siglousky wrote a great post why you should hate it. <<link>> The hacker and painter. He doesn't spak for me. He shouldn't write for the lay person about what it's like to be in the mind of a genius programmer. It's horseshit.

[dawn] re: short leash. The flip side is when cos take way too much money. the whole startups being your own boss isn't true. [rabble] if you're bootstrapped, it really is freedom. It's fascinating how different it is. My agency takes client work. Clients come and go. Employees come and go. As long as you have money in the bank, it's freedom. When you get to the point when you have money, there's no permission, no rules. You can mess it up. [elena] american business function is inherently healthy setting. I've never had a client that was completely good. Showing up in the cube farm for 40 hrs a day isn't healthy. being forced into this false community. [dawn] our personal life is what we make of it, regardless. other things give me the option to do something else entirely. ppl go into work and focus on what sucks. doens't matter what job you have, there will always be things to be unhappy about. [elena] this management is pretty new. small family groups were organized aroudn agriculture and child rearing. long term buliding with relative strangers to do a very specialized task is . [tyesha] the precedent is large scale slavery to do infrastructure projects. [elena] our power structures are so diffrent than they were from 5000 years ago. [tyesha] danger is over specialization [elena]post about specialization. the point of coming into cities is to reap benefits of specialization. great benefits of having other people do things at scale [kmikeym] we're defined by our work. weird bc i feel more defined by the thing i do outside of work. most people know me for other things [jos] the frist question people ask is what you do. [dawn] that's true of the small number of us that are in this room. the stuff that i've done in the pdx community hasn't been work related. I like hanging out with geeks. All the things i organized in the community were the things people know me for. [elena] not true for me. i have so many other interests not having anything to do with my career. mushrooms, rafting. [al3x] the thing missing form the post is that it's clearly aimed at techy and designy people. [jos] people who ahve saving and have the luxury of saving to be able to quit for 3mos [al3x] if everyone techy makes a tiny company, how will you employ people with other skills. he's not presenting a scalable model. all of these orgs that get large are bad according to his premise. but they employ large numbers of people.how is this scalable [rabble] having a company makes you internalze the vlaue of your time in a very concrete way. if you're not making money you analyze the value of that task. [jos] is the go local movenment of food going to extend to business? [elena] what i heard him say was we do best when we're in groups of 10. I lived in aborigianl people. the constraint was how many could fit in the toyoto truck. 4-6 ppl. it was directed by the elders. we had a shared goal and relied on their knowledge of the landscape and task. there's a little debate on how to go about the task. no on etakes direct leadership bc there's too much social risk in suggesting the group to a lake and then there's no fish there. but it was all done with consensus buidling. in american culture you'd never pick up another's project on it. when I went away and left my basket, i came back and someone had done work on it. at first i thought 'who worked on my thing?' but then i saw what they did was good. [gaba] in uruguay you'd work more communally. [rabble] everything is done iwth explanation of your social ocnnection. [al3x] the interesting thing about the model he advocates where it's small and everyone has an equity stake. you're willing to go beyond the job title to do whatever you can to make the company succeed.  it only happens in military, spiritual or social missions. it's a question of belief.

[tyesha] having a stake in the company can make you more invested int he company [kmikey] i like that I can go home and be done and not worry [al3x[ it can cause aggressiveness. [kmikey] i have a verry different philosophy about what it takes to be happy [al2x] for some people their definition is keeping up with the joneses [rabble] this prof siad yugoslavia was the def of happiness bc they never had to worry that they would be homeless. there was a strong social network. [crystal] was yugoslavia successful [rabble]they were distinctly different than the rest of the soviet bloc. companies were owned by the people. [al3x[ are we talking about what makes a successful company or what makes for a happy individual. some people have an inner motivation to work all the time. [carmen] when i was a freelancer i would spend every hour i wasn't billing doing something i really love. [rabble] lost of studies show that money isn't the best motivator. [dawn] bonuses are very different than salary. [kmikey] it's a schizophrenic way to compensate people. [el3x] works well in sales contexts. it's been working for them for decades. it's very transparent to value them. [tyesha] i worked for a company that rewarded the whole company based on the success. they revealed numbers every month and everyone worked toward it. [kmikey] i worked for a publicly traded company and the mood was directly related to the stock price bc everyone was invested in it.

[crystal] tips on how to not go crazy?

[al3x] don't go from one startup to founding a new one [kmikey] question why you need the money [al3x] work your ass off with a .3 to .5 percent equity stake and get bought and pocket a few million. [dave] get out of your comfort zone. [kmikey] the element of truth that runs through that article is that if you're running a small company you get to push your comfort zone all the time. [dawn] you can do that all the time wherever you see an opportunity. even as a community manger i had commit access to the websites. [rabble] it will be fascinating to see what github will do. now they have 40 people [skinny] how true is "hire good people and get out of their way" [al3x] i tried to hire very self-motivated people but they all asked for some constraints. [skinny] being financially secure makes me a better employee. if i advocated for something  [dawn] i agree. i push people to do things when I relaly feel it's the right thing to do.
